

# HTTP Editorial Style Guide

This page collects guidance for HTTP specification editors, to promote consistency and ease of use for the document set. See also the [RFC Editor style guide](https://www.rfc-editor.org/styleguide/).

**NOTE**: This guide is still in development; discuss improvements to it on the [issues list](https://github.com/httpwg/admin/labels/style-guide).

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [Header and Trailer Fields](#header-and-trailer-fields)
  - [Structured Fields](#structured-fields)
- [Content](#content)
- [Methods](#methods)
- [Status Codes](#status-codes)
- [Not HTTP Specific](#not-http-specific)
  - [Registries](#registries)
  - [Self-References](#self-references)
  - [References](#references)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->


## Header and Trailer Fields

When defining a field, the first instance should be quoted; e.g.,

> This document defines the "Foo" response header field.

If the field is specific to headers, trailers, requests, and/or responses, the definition should include the relevant terms, as above.

Subsequent occurrences should be unquoted, but always be followed by "field", "header field", or "trailer field" as appropriate.

### Structured Fields

Most HTTP headers defined by the Working Group should be [Structured Fields](). This isn't an official policy, but many folks argue for them. 

When specifying a Structured Field in prose, define it in terms of the data structures in that specification; for example:

~~~ markdown
The Foo header field is a List (see {{Section 3.1 of STRUCTURED-FIELDS}} 
of Integers (see {{Section 3.1.1 of STRUCTURED-FIELDS}}).
~~~

All such references should be in Section 3 of the Structured Fields specification, **not** Section 4.

Only use the ABNF rule names (e.g., `sf-list`) if defining ABNF for your field.


## Content

Use 'content', not 'body'.


## Methods

Just use the bare method name (without quotes or emphasis); e.g.,

> Send a request with the GET method.

Stating that it is a HTTP method is optional; this is equally acceptable:

> Send a GET request.


## Status Codes

Use the bare status code number, followed by the reason phrase in parentheses. For example:

> The 500 (Internal Server Error) status code.

When referring to multiple individual status codes, the reason phrase can be omitted; for example:

> If the status code is 200, 202, or 204, proceed.

To refer to a range of status codes, use "xx" notation:

> The 4xx range of status codes.

When discussing status codes in general, the correct reference is [Section 15 of HTTP](https://httpwg.org/http-core/draft-ietf-httpbis-semantics-latest.html#status.codes). Use 'status code', not 'Status Code'.


## Not HTTP Specific

The following are useful tips for reducing the amount of editing that the RPC needs to do, leading to cleaner diffs at the end of the process.

### Registries

When referring to an IANA registry, quote its name. For example,

> The Foo header field has been registered in the "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Field Name Registry".

Create registry entries as Definition Lists. For example,

~~~ markdown
Name
: dns_timeout

Description
: The intermediary encountered a timeout when trying to find an IP address for the next hop hostname.

Extra Parameters
: None.

Recommended HTTP status code
: 504

Response only generated by intermediaries
: true

Reference
: {{&SELF}}
~~~

### Self-References

If referring to the your document's RFC number (e.g., in a registry entry), add this to your document's YAML header:

~~~ yaml
entity:
  SELF: "RFC nnnn"
~~~

... and then for each reference, use `{{&SELF}}`, for example:

~~~ markdown
Reference
: {{&SELF}}
~~~

### References

Generally, named references are preferred for "core" specifications like HTTP and TLS. In addition to giving readers a cue about the purpose of the reference, this is a small hint that the RFC number is not the identifier they should be remembering. For example:

~~~ markdown
This document defines a HTTP {{HTTP}} header field that uses the conventions
in {{STRUCTURED-FIELDS}} to convey information about the TLS ({{TLS}}) session.
~~~
